SO, HOW YOU
BEEN DOING, MAN?
YOU KNOW.
FOR THE MOST PART,
I'M FINE.
WHICH I'M GOING
TO INTERPRET AS MEANING
THAT EVEN THOUGH YOU'RE NOT
GOING DOWN IN FLAMES RIGHT NOW,
YOU DO HAVE SOMETHING
ON YOUR MIND,
SO WHY DON'T YOU JUST TELL ME
WHAT'S ON YOUR MIND?
[SIGHS] NOTHING.
REALLY.
WHICH--I DON'T KNOW--
TO TELL YOU THE TRUTH,
IS KIND OF THE PROBLEM.
I CAN'T FIGURE OUT
WHAT THE HELL TO DO
WITH MYSELF.
AND YOU'RE DEFINITELY NOT
GONNA GO BACK TO U.S.C., HUH?
NO, AND THAT I KNOW
IS A RIGHT DECISION.
BUT UNFORTUNATELY,
IT'S ABOUT ALL I KNOW.
[BOTH LAUGH]
I MEAN, COME ON, MAN.
YOU GOTTA CUT YOURSELF
A LITTLE BIT OF A BREAK HERE.
LIFE DID JUST THROW YOU
ONE HELL OF A CURVE BALL.
ALL YOU REALLY NEED
IS TIME,
BECAUSE
BEFORE YOU KNOW IT,
YOU'RE GONNA BE
BACK IN THE SADDLE,
FULL OF CONFIDENCE,
UP TO YOUR OLD TRICKS.
AND YOU HAVE COME
TO THE RIGHT PLACE.
OH, YEAH?
WELL, YEAH, MAN.
YOU'RE TALKING TO THE KING
OF DIRECTIONLESS HIMSELF.
WHAT DO YOU THINK
I WAS DOING
WITH ALL THOSE YEARS
OF HIGH SCHOOL FOLLY?
I WAS PERFECTING
THE LIFE WITHOUT PURPOSE.
YOU KNOW, LAST YEAR,
YOU PROBABLY COULD
HAVE GOTTEN AWAY
WITH A BURST OF
SELF-DEPRECATION
LIKE THAT.
BUT THIS YEAR, PACEY,
YOU SEEM FAIRLY DRIVEN.
YEAH, I KNOW.
IT'S TERRIBLE, ISN'T IT?
BUT WHAT CAN I SAY?
I LOVE THE KITCHEN LIFE.
I EVEN LOVE
THE CRASS KITCHEN ATTITUDE.
SANDWICH?
SURE.
BUT INEVITABLY,
ALONG WITH
THE CRASS KITCHEN ATTITUDE
COMES THE GRILLSIDE DRAMA.
OH?
YEAH.
IT ALL STARTED WITH ME
TRYING TO HELP THIS GIRL
OUT OF HER VERY
SELF-DESTRUCTIVE RELATIONSHIP.
BUT THEN YOU THROW IN
A LITTLE DASH
OF MY VERY POORLY THOUGHT OUT
ATTRACTION TO HER
AND HER ABSOLUTE LACK
OF ATTRACTION TO ME.
YOU KIND OF GET
WHERE I'M COMING FROM.
[LAUGHS] OH, THAT SUCKS.
YOU WANNA TALK ABOUT IT?
NAH.
TO TELL YOU THE TRUTH,
IT'S REALLY NOT
ALL THAT INTERESTING.
AND IT'S NOTHING YOU SHOULD
BE TROUBLING YOURSELF WITH,
YOU KNOW, GIVEN EVERYTHING
THAT'S BEEN ON YOUR MIND LATELY.
[SIGHS]
AHEM. WELL...
FOR WHAT IT'S WORTH,
THE PACEY I KNOW
WOULD FIGURE OUT A WAY
TO HELP THE GIRL,
NO MATTER
WHAT THE DRAMA.
IS THAT SO?
WITHOUT A DOUBT.
OK. JOEY, IT'S TIME
FOR A STUDY BREAK.
I'VE BEEN NODDING OFF
ON THE SAME SENTENCE
TO THE POINT OF DROOL.
IT'S JUST--
IT'S NOT PRETTY.
YOU DON'T HAVE
TO ASK ME TWICE.
AHH, SWEET.
SO, WHERE'S JACK?
DEEP IN
THE LAND OF FRAT.
DID HE TELL YOU ABOUT
THIS WINTER FORMAL
THING?
UM, YEAH.
THAT ACTUALLY SOUNDS
VAGUELY FAMILIAR TO ME, BUT...
TO BE QUITE HONEST, ALL
THE GREEK-SPEAK SOUNDS LIKE,
WELL, GREEK TO ME.
[LAUGHS] I GET IT.
HE WOULDN'T THINK
OF ASKING YOU
TO THE CAVEMAN HOOPLA,
SO I GET STUCK WITH
THE SURROGATE DATE
DUTIES.
I FEEL FOR YOU.
I DO.
WATCHING JACK
PRETEND TO BE ONE
WITH THE THICK-NECKED
BROTHERHOOD.
RUH RUH.
COME ON, IT CAN'T
BE THAT BAD, RIGHT?
WELL, I'M SURE THAT GRAMS
HAS SOME PRESCRIPTION
MEDICATION SOMEWHERE
THAT WOULD HELP YOU A LOT
THROUGH THIS, JOEY.
[LAUGHS]
THANKS, BUT I THINK
I'LL MANAGE.
HEY, JEN?
UM...
SPEAKING OF THE MEN
IN OUR LIVES...
HOW'S DAWSON THESE DAYS?
YOU'RE ASKING ME?
WELL, IT'S, YOU KNOW--
I HAVEN'T SEEN HIM
FOR A WHILE,
AND I KNOW THAT
YOU TWO HANG OUT AND...
I GUESS I JUST NEEDED
TO KNOW THAT HE'S DOING
ALL RIGHT.
HE'S BETTER.
HE, UM, HE'S BEEN
SEEING A SHRINK.
WHICH I THINK IS REALLY
GOOD FOR HIM, YOU KNOW?
HE'S GONNA BE FINE.
GOOD.
IT'S EXACTLY WHAT
I NEEDED TO HEAR.
IT'S BEEN, UM...
IT'S BEEN KIND OF HARD
GETTING USED TO NOT...
BEING THE ONE TO SEE HIM
THROUGH THIS, YOU KNOW.
RIGHT.
I THINK
I'M FINALLY OK WITH IT,
WHICH IS EVEN HARDER
TO ADMIT WITHOUT FEELING
LIKE A TOTAL JERK.
OH, STOP IT, JOEY.
YOU'RE NOT A JERK.
WELL, ANYWAY, I'VE
BEEN MEANING TO TELL YOU
THAT I CAN'T THINK
OF A BETTER PERSON
TO BE THERE FOR HIM
RIGHT NOW THAN YOU.
I'M REALLY GLAD THAT
YOU'RE THERE FOR HIM.
THANK YOU.
Polar Bear: ALL RIGHT.
SIMMER DOWN, LADIES.
NO OFFENSE, JACK.
[ALL LAUGH]
WE GOT A LOT TO DO
FOR TONIGHT'S FORMAL
AND PRECIOUS LITTLE TIME
AFTER THIS MEETING.
SO LET'S GET TO IT.
A--THIS IS OUR BIGGEST
EVENT BEFORE THE BREAK,
B--IT MUST BE PERFECT,
AND C--
EVERYBODY...
MUST GET LAID.
[CHEERING AND YELLING]
YOU SHOULD ALL BE HOOKED
UP WITH A DATE BY NOW.
BUT FOR THOSE OF
YOU CHUMPS WITHOUT ONE...
MEET THE LIST.
YEAH, THE LIST.
ON THE SPIRIT
OF HOUSE LOVE,
I NEED NAMES, PEOPLE.
DECENT-LOOKING HONEYS
READY TO PUT OUT.
WHAT ABOUT DEBBIE?
HOW ABOUT
SUZANNE?
[SHOUTING]
WHAT ABOUT--
WHAT ABOUT THOSE FINE-ASS
WORTHINGTON CHICKS?
All: YEAH!
COME ON, DOG,
WE KNOW YOU GOT
SOME HOTTIE
FRIENDS.
Polar Bear:
AND WE KNOW YOU'RE NOT
LOOKING TO SCORE WITH 'EM.
[ALL LAUGH]
Frat brother: TALK! TALK!
COME ON, PLEASE TALK!
ALL RIGHT! ALL RIGHT!
ALL RIGHT!
I MAY KNOW A GIRL THAT MEETS
THE SPECIFIED REQUIREMENTS.
HEY!
I GOT DIBS ON WHATEVER
THIS GUY'S GOT.
OK, I'VE SEEN THESE
QUALITY CHICKS McPHEE
HANGS WITH.
[LAUGHS]
Polar Bear:
SO OUR MAIN MAN ERIC
HAS GOT HIMSELF A DATE.
[YELLING AND CHEERING]
OK. NOW, I AM AWARE
OF HOW ABSURD WHAT I AM
ABOUT TO SAY IS GONNA SOUND.
BUT I'M ALSO AWARE
OF HOW MISERABLE
YOUR CURRENT LOVE LIFE
CAN MAKE YOU SOMETIMES.
AND I CAN'T JUST SIT AROUND
THAT KITCHEN ANYMORE
AND WATCH YOU HURT,
ESPECIALLY WHEN I KNOW THAT
I CAN DO SOMETHING ABOUT IT,
SO I'M HERE
TO ASK YOU OUT, KAREN.
I CAN'T GO ON
A DATE WITH YOU, PACEY.
OK, THAT'S FINE.
THEN YOU DON'T REALLY HAVE
TO THINK OF IT AS A DATE
SO MUCH.
YOU CAN THINK OF IT
AS AN OPPORTUNITY
TO COMPARE AND CONTRAST.
A FREE TRIAL RUN
OF A LIFE WITHOUT HEARTACHE.
PACEY, YOU KNOW I CAN'T.
ACTUALLY, I KNOW
THAT YOU CAN, KAREN.
BECAUSE, LOOK, YOU NEED
A BREAK FROM YOUR RELATIONSHIP.
I MEAN, HELL, I NEED A BREAK
FROM YOUR RELATIONSHIP.
AND I PROMISE
TO WEAR CLEAN SOCKS,
LEAVE ALL THE KINKY
UNDERWEAR AT HOME.
I MIGHT EVEN STOP BY C.V.S.
AND STEAL MYSELF
A BOTTLE OF COLOGNE.
SO WHAT DO YOU SAY?
YEAH? DO I HAVE ANY REASON
TO FEEL HOPE HERE?
I MEAN,
YOU HAVE MY WORD.
I'LL KEEP THIS WHOLE THING
COMPLETELY PLATONIC.
FINE.
A FRIENDLY OUTING
ON THE TOWN.
NOTHING MORE.
EXCELLENT.
YOU ROCK. SO I'LL
PICK YOU UP AROUND 7:00?
7:00.
HA HA HA.
SO THIS IS YOUR FRIEND PACEY
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT?
YEAH,
BUT IT'S NOT JUST HIM.
IT'S ALL MY FRIENDS.
IT'S LIKE, THEY--
IT'S BEEN 2 MONTHS,
AND EVERYBODY'S STILL--
THEY'RE HOLDING THINGS
BACK FROM ME,
LIKE THEY'RE
TRYING TO PROTECT ME.
I MEAN, THEY LOOK AT ME
LIKE THIS--AS THIS...
FRAGILE, BREAKABLE THING
INSTEAD OF JUST DAWSON,
THE PERSON.
AND I KNOW
THEY MEAN WELL.
IT'S JUST...
IT MAKES IT VIRTUALLY
IMPOSSIBLE TO MOVE ON.
HAVE YOU MENTIONED THIS
TO ANY OF THEM?
YEAH. WELL...
NO,
ACTUALLY.
NO, I HAVEN'T
MENTIONED IT
TO THEM.
WHAT ABOUT THAT FILM FESTIVAL
YOU TOLD ME ABOUT?
ISN'T THAT COMING UP?
THIS WEEKEND.
ARE YOU GOING?
HADN'T PLANNED
ON IT, NO.
IT MIGHT BE GOOD
TO TAKE LIFE ON THE ROAD
FOR A LITTLE WHILE.
HELP CLEAR YOUR MIND.
YOU COULD EVEN
TAKE ONE OF THOSE FRIENDS
YOU FEEL SO ESTRANGED FROM.
COME ON,
THERE MUST BE
SOMEONE YOU CAN TAKE.
WELL, THIS LITTLE DITTY
GOES OUT TO ALL YOU
BRAVE SOULS OUT THERE
SURVIVING A HEARTBREAK.
TRUST ME,
BETTER THINGS WILL COME.
HELLO.
HEY!
OH, AND DON'T WORRY,
OUR DUPLICITOUS
SLEAZEBAG
FORMERLY KNOWN AS
OUR BOYFRIEND CHARLIE
IS NOT HERE TODAY.
AH, THAT'S
A GOOD THING.
YEAH, THAT'S ALWAYS
YOU KNOW WHAT?
EVEN IF
HE WERE HERE,
IT WOULDN'T
REALLY MATTER TO ME.
REALLY?
YEP.
I THINK THAT TIME
HAS FINALLY DONE
ITS HEALING THING.
HEY, WHAT'S UP?
NOTHING.
I JUST WISH I HAD
YOUR SELF-CONTROL.
I MEAN, I KNOW
I SHOULD BE PUKING
AT THE MERE MENTION
OF CHARLIE'S NAME,
BUT I FIND MYSELF
DAYDREAMING ABOUT HIM.
HIS LATEST ATTEMPT
TO WOO US BACK
WITH THAT WHOLE
"I'VE CHANGED" PITCH.
UH, WAIT. WHICH
"I'VE CHANGED" PITCH?
YOU KNOW, ALL THOSE
CORNY LOVE LETTERS
HE KEEPS SENDING.
DOESN'T IT SEEM
SOMETIMES,
YOU KNOW, IN THAT MOMENT
YOU CRAWL INTO BED ALONE,
LIKE, "HEY, MAYBE
HE REALLY DID CHANGE"?
[SIGHS]
GOSH.
I DON'T KNOW WHICH
LOVE LETTERS YOU MEAN.
OH.
HASN'T HE BEEN
SENDING YOU LETTERS?
NO.
OH.
WOW.
SO HE'S TRYING TO
WOO YOU BACK WITH LOVE
LETTERS, HUH? THAT'S--
JEN, I'M SO SORRY.
ARE YOU OK?
NO, NO, NO.
PLEASE.
PLEASE DON'T APOLOGIZE.
I SWEAR IT'S FINE.
I WAS JUST SAYING
TO YOU THAT IT
DOESN'T MATTER TO ME.
I WANT
CORNY LOVE LETTERS.
I JUST DON'T UNDERSTAND
WHY HE CHOSE HER
AND NOT ME.
IS THERE SOMETHING
WRONG WITH ME?
JEN,
THERE'S NOTHING
WRONG WITH YOU.
IT'S JUST--
ALL THIS TIME,
I THOUGHT HE WAS
CHEATING ON US
ON EQUAL GROUND,
YOU KNOW?
BUT, NO, SHE GOT
TO BE THE GIRLFRIEND
AND I WAS JUST THE...
FLOOZIE.
THE FLOOZIE?
YEAH.
[LAUGHS]
THE FLOOZIE?
[LAUGHING]
IT'S WHAT I AM.
A FLOOZIE.
OH, JEN.
THIS IS SUPPOSED TO BE
THE OTHER WAY AROUND.
I'M SUPPOSED TO BE
CONSOLING YOU,
YOU KNOW.
NO, PLEASE.
IT'S THE LEAST I CAN DO.
AND BELIEVE IT OR NOT,
IT'S HELPING ME.
A LOT.
I JUST DON'T
WANNA BE HERE.
THE THOUGHT OF RUNNING
INTO EITHER OF THEM
MAKES ME WANNA PUKE.
OK, SO LET'S
GET OUT OF HERE, THEN.
THIS WEEKEND.
WELL, I'M GAME.
WHERE
DO YOU WANNA GO?
YOU EVER BEEN
TO HOOKSETT, NEW HAMPSHIRE?
NO.
[LAUGHS]
Audrey: CAN I
TELL YOU SOMETHING?
I AM SO PSYCHED
TO BE GOING
TO THIS FORMAL THING.
I WAS SO EXCITED
WHEN JACK CALLED.
OK, GRANTED,
LAST-MINUTE ARRANGEMENTS
CAN BE KIND OF ANNOYING,
NOT TO MENTION BLIND DATES
CAN BE AS DANGEROUS
AS GATOR WRESTLING.
JOEY.
YOU'RE HOGGING
THE MIRROR.
OH.
OW. FREAK.
OH, GOD!
Audrey:
HELLO, HIDEOUS.
DO I EVEN LIKE
ANY OF MY CLOTHES?
AUDREY, YOU LOOK GREAT.
BESIDES, I REALLY DON'T
KNOW WHAT THE BIG DEAL
IS.
I MEAN AS MUCH AS I WANT
TO GIVE JACK CREDIT,
I'M SURE IT'S
JUST ANOTHER NIGHT
OF FRAT DEBAUCHERY
MASQUERADING
AS AN EVENT.
OK, KILLJOY.
FIRST OFF, JACK SAID
THIS ERIC GUY
IS HELLA'CUTE,
WHICH RIGHT OFF, SOUNDS
PRETTY INTERESTING TO ME.
AND SECONDLY,
FOR SOMEONE AS
PROGRESSIVE AS YOU,
IT'S AMAZING
HOW CLOSED-MINDED
YOU ARE ABOUT FRATS.
THE WORDS
"PROGRESSIVE" AND "FRAT"
DO NOT BELONG TOGETHER
IN THE SAME SENTENCE.
WHAT ABOUT THIS ONE?
JOEY,
WE'RE GOING
ON A DOUBLE DATE.
A LITTLE CHEER, PLEASE.
OK, OK.
WELL, IF NOTHING ELSE,
AT LEAST
I'LL HAVE A GOOD TIME
WITH JACK, RIGHT?
[KNOCK KNOCK]
WAIT, WAIT.
OK.
HEY.
HEY, HANDSOME.
WOW! JOEY,
YOU LOOK
BEAUTIFUL.
THANK YOU.
AUDREY.
HI.
HOW YOU DOING?
I'M GREAT.
GOOD. GOOD.
ERIC, THIS IS JOEY.
HEY.
NICE TO MEET YOU.
THIS IS AUDREY.
HI.
JACK WAS RIGHT.
YOU'RE A STONE FOX.
Audrey: THANK YOU.
YOU KNOW, I GUESS
YOU'LL HAVE TO DO.
[LAUGHS]
WELL, LET'S GO.
SHALL WE?
YEAH, YEAH, LET'S GO.
Woman: CAN I
HELP YOU YET?
YEAH. I'M DAWSON LEERY,
CHECKING IN
FOR THE FILM FESTIVAL.
OH, MY GOD!
YOU'RE TOTALLY
WICKED CUTE.
WAY CUTER
THAN THE PICTURE.
THERE'S A PICTURE?
MM-HMM. OH. IS THIS
YOUR GIRLFRIEND?
HA! HA! HA!
OH, COOL!
YOUR MOVIE'S AWESOME!
YOUR SCREENING
SOLD OUT.
YOU BEAT OLIVER,
YOU KNOW?
HE'S LIKE
THE BIGGEST THING
AROUND THESE PARTS.
I'M SORRY.
WHO'S OLIVER?
HE'S OUR
LOCAL CELEBRITY.
I DON'T SEE
WHAT THE BIG DEAL
IS, THOUGH.
ASK ME, HE LOOKS
KIND OF RETARDED.
HE'S LIKE,
ECCENTRIC, TREVOR.
GOD!
Dawson: OK, LET ME
MAKE THIS CLEAR.
IT IS MORE
THAN AN OPTION
TO TURN AROUND
AND GO BACK HOME
RIGHT NOW.
OH, I DON'T
THINK SO.
GRANTED, THE PEOPLE
OF THIS TOWN
ARE A LITTLE...OFF,
BUT WHO CAN DENY
THAT WE COULD
BOTH USE THE LOVE?
AND WHAT BETTER WAY
TO SPEND AN EVENING
THAN AS GIRLFRIEND
TO THE BIGGEST
CELEBRITY IN TOWN?
GEE, HONEY,
YOU SHOULDN'T HAVE.
WELL...
WOW! YOU GUYS
REALLY WENT ALL OUT.
SIGMA EP.
EXPECT NOTHING LESS.
WAY TO DELIVER, MAN.
SCORE, BIG DADDY. SCORE.
WHAT WAS THAT?
NOTHING. THE GUYS
JUST BEING IDIOTS.
TAKE YOUR COATS,
LADIES?
OK.
YOU KNOW, JEN SHOULD
BE SHARING IN THIS PAIN
RIGHT NOW.
I SHOULD CALL HER.
NO CAN DO. SHE'S GONE
FOR THE WEEKEND
WITH DAWSON.
THAT WAS GREAT. THANKS.
JUST THE CHECK, PLEASE.
THANK YOU.
SO?
WHAT?
OH, COME ON.
WAS THIS GOOD,
OR WAS THIS GOOD?
NOW GIVE ME A LITTLE
BIT OF CREDIT HERE
BECAUSE I SAW
THE LOOK ON YOUR FACE
WHEN WE CAME IN.
I DID NOT
HAVE A FACE.
YOU HAD A FACE.
BUT LET'S GET BACK
TO GIVING ME CREDIT,
SHALL WE?
YOU MAY
ALSO HAVE NOTICED
THAT TONIGHT
I HAVE KEPT US
IN VERY CROWDED PLACES
BECAUSE
I WOULDN'T WANT YOU
TO BE TEMPTED TO JUMP ME
ON OUR NON-DATE EVENING.
WELL, I MEAN,
YOU ARE WEARING THAT
REALLY SEXY OUTFIT.
DAMN.
WHO WOULD HAVE
THOUGHT YOU'D
CLEAN UP SO GOOD?
AND YOU'RE SO RIGHT.
A LESSER GUY WOULD
HAVE NOT AFFORDED
MY SELF-CONTROL
SUCH A GENEROUS
SECURITY BLANKET.
YOU'VE SAVED ME
FROM MYSELF.
WELL, IT HASN'T BEEN EASY,
LET ME TELL YOU.
[KAREN CHUCKLES]
AND I KNOW YOU DON'T
LIKE HEARING THIS, KAREN,
BUT YOU
DO DESERVE BETTER
THAN BEING
BRECHER'S ILLICIT AFFAIR.
A WOMAN
WHO IS AS GIVING AND
AS BEAUTIFUL AS YOURSELF
DESERVES SOMEONE
WHO'S GONNA BE THERE
LOVING YOU BACK
JUST AS HARD.
Dawson:
OK. THAT WAS GOOD.
Jen: YEAH, THAT
WAS REALLY GOOD.
WHICH JUST KINDA
PUTS THE FINAL NAIL
IN THE COFFIN.
WHAT NAIL?
WHAT COFFIN?
HOW DID I
GET TOP PRIZE?
I MEAN, EITHER MY DAD
DONATED A WING
TO THE HOOKSETT
PUBLIC LIBRARY,
OR THESE PEOPLE
HAVE NO IDEA
WHAT'S GOOD
AND WHAT'S BAD.
OK. THIS
HAS GOTTA STOP.
WHAT'S GOTTA STOP?
THIS--THE PEOPLE
OF THIS TOWN ARE
PERFECTLY NICE.
AND YOU
BLAMING THEM
FOR BAD TASTE
IS OBVIOUSLY
JUST A WAY
TO UNDERMINE
YOUR OWN
ARTISTIC
ABILITIES.
AND YOU HAVE
A TREMENDOUS TALENT,
SO WOULD YOU
PLEASE STOP PUTTING
YOURSELF DOWN?
OR I'LL HAVE TO
BREAK UP WITH YOU.
YOU CAN'T
BREAK UP WITH ME.
YOU'LL NEVER
THE PHYSICAL ATTRACTION
IS FAR TOO STRONG.
YOU GOT ME THERE,
TIGER.
HEY! LEERY?
YOUR MOVIE BETTER
BE GOOD, MAN.
THIS FESTIVAL
CONSISTENTLY GIVES
THE FIRST PRIZE
TO A FILM
WITH A FRESH VOICE
AND UNIQUE VISION.
I'VE WON IT
3 YEARS IN A ROW,
AND I JUST DON'T
LIKE THE IDEA
OF BEING USURPED
BY A HOLLYWOOD
SLICKSTER, YOU KNOW?
IT'S JUST NOT COOL.
HI. YOU'RE
REALLY PRETTY.
WHO'S GONNA ARGUE?
NO AFTER-DINNER
CIGARETTE?
NO CIGARETTE.
I TEND TO ONLY SMOKE
WHEN I'M NERVOUS
OR SEVERELY ANNOYED.
SO, THEN,
NOT NERVOUS OR
SEVERELY ANNOYED?
I GUESS
I SHOULD TAKE THAT
AS A GOOD SIGN.
IN FACT, I DON'T
THINK I SAW YOU YELL
OR COMPLAIN
ALL NIGHT LONG.
IT'S AMAZING WHAT BEING
OUT OF CIVILIZATION
DOES FOR A GIRL.
IF I DIDN'T KNOW
YOU BETTER,
I WOULD SAY THAT YOU
POSITIVELY LIGHT UP.
NOW, DON'T GO
RUIN THE MOMENT WITH
UNNECESSARY COMPLIMENTS.
AND WHY NOT? ENOUGH
OF THE CYNICISM.
I SAY THAT WE RUIN
THIS NIGHT SILLY
WITH UNNECESSARY
FLATTERY.
KAREN TORRES,
YOU ARE A BEAUTIFUL
YOUNG WOMAN
WITH FANTASTIC
TASTE IN CLOTHING,
AND ALTHOUGH
YOUR JOKES
DO TEND TO BOMB,
YOU MAKE UP FOR IT
WITH THAT SPARKLING
SMILE OF YOURS.
OK. NOW, IT'S YOUR TURN.
I HAD A GREAT TIME
TONIGHT, PACEY.
YEAH, I'LL TAKE THAT.
THANK YOU.
YOU KNOW, JUST SEEING
YOU HAVE A GOOD TIME
IS THANKS ENOUGH.
ANYWAY, UH...
GOOD NIGHT, KAREN.
THE FIRST TIME
I SAW THIS DOCUMENTARY,
I KNEW
I WAS IN THE HANDS
OF A TALENTED FILMMAKER,
BUT I WAS EQUALLY
MOVED BY A LETTER
WHICH ACCOMPANIED
THE FILM'S SUBMISSION.
IT WAS A LETTER FROM
THE FILMMAKER'S FATHER
TELLING ME
THAT I ABSOLUTELY
COULD NOT IGNORE
HIS SON'S WORK.
HONESTLY, I WAS
PREDISPOSED TO HATE
THE FILM BECAUSE, WELL,
IT DIDN'T SHOW UP
UNTIL 3 DAYS PASSED
THE DEADLINE.
BUT I'M
A FATHER MYSELF,
AND I KNOW A THING OR TWO
ABOUT PARENTAL PRIDE.
SO I GRUDGINGLY PUT
THE VIDEO IN THE VCR.
AND AFTER 5 MINUTES,
I KNEW MITCH LEERY WAS RIGHT.
I ABSOLUTELY
COULD NOT IGNORE
HIS SON'S WORK.
SO, LADIES
AND GENTLEMEN,
I GIVE YOU THE FILMMAKER
BEHIND THIS YEAR'S
TOP PRIZE FILM...
DAWSON LEERY.
UH...
I DON'T KNOW
WHAT TO SAY.
MY DAD...
LOVED MOVIES.
HE LOVED THEM, UH,
IN THE TRUEST SENSE
IN THAT
HE HAD NO INTEREST
IN MAKING THEM.
HE JUST...
HE LOVED WATCHING THEM.
HE STARTED
TAKING ME TO MOVIES
AT A VERY EARLY AGE.
I LOVED IT. HE WOULD
TAKE ME TO MOVIES
AND THEN, UH...
AND THEN TALK TO ME
ABOUT THEM.
AND THANK GOD
HE DID.
UM, 'CAUSE
THERE'S NO WAY I
WOULD BE HERE RIGHT NOW
IF HE HADN'T DONE THAT.
UM, THANK YOU SO MUCH
FOR THIS AWARD
AND FOR RECEIVING
THIS FILM SO WARMLY.
I DEDICATE THIS FILM
TO MY DAD,
AND I WILL REMEMBER HIM
EVERY TIME I LOOK AT THIS.
SO, THANK YOU.
AND A VERY SPECIAL
THANK YOU
TO MY GIRLFRIEND
JEN LINDLEY.
Eric: I'M--
I'M NOT SAYING THAT
I BENCH THAT MUCH
YET.
BUT I MEAN,
SOME OF THE GUYS,
THEY DO. IT'S CRAZY.
SO, UM, WHAT GYM
DO YOU GO TO?
[SOMEONE SCREAMS]
WHAT ARE YOU DOING?
NOTHING.
YOU WANT
ANOTHER DRINK?
HEY! McPHEE!
I'M BEGINNING
TO THINK YOU
LIED TO ME, MAN.
WHAT ARE YOU
TALKING ABOUT?
AUDREY.
THIS CHICK,
SHE'S ALL TEASE
AND NO PLEASE.
COME ON.
IT'S ONLY HALFWAY
THROUGH THE NIGHT.
I MEAN,
GIVE HER SOME TIME.
SHE'LL COME AROUND.
GOD, I DON'T KNOW,
MAN. IT'S LIKE
I GAVE HER MY BEST
MOVES AND MY BEST
LINES, AND IT...
ZZZ! NOTHING!
WHAT IF SHE TURNS
OUT TO BE A PRUDE?
WHAT? NO, NO. BELIEVE ME.
LOOK, THE LAST THING
AUDREY IS IS A PRUDE.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT
YOU'RE SO WORRIED
ABOUT, MAN.
I MEAN, AUDREY'S
EASY, ALL RIGHT.
SHE'S JUST LOOKING
TO HAVE A GOOD TIME.
I KNOW FOR A FACT
THAT SHE WAS PSYCHED
TO COME HERE TONIGHT.
YOU JUST, YOU KNOW,
PLAY YOUR CARDS RIGHT
AND SHE'LL HOOK UP
WITH YOU FOR SURE.
LOOK, I KNOW THAT
THIS IS COMPLICATED.
AND DESPITE WHAT
WERE MY BEST INTENTIONS,
I PROMISE YOU I KNOW
THAT I HAVEN'T HELPED,
BUT THERE'S NO REASON
WHY WE CAN'T WORK
THIS OUT.
THIS DOESN'T CHANGE
ANYTHING, PACEY.
THIS DOESN'T MEAN
THAT WE'RE IN
A RELATIONSHIP.
WELL, I KNOW THAT WE'RE
NOT HAVING A RELATIONSHIP,
BUT NOW--
THEN WHY THE HELL
DID YOU START THIS
IN THE FIRST PLACE?
HOLD ON A SECOND HERE.
YOU KISSED ME. REMEMBER?
THAT WAS
A MISTAKE. OK?
YOU'RE NOT WORTH
WHAT I'M RISKING.
SO, THEN
WHY DID YOU DO IT?
I DON'T KNOW.
DID YOU SLEEP WITH ME
TO GET BACK AT BRECHER?
YOU DID, DIDN'T YOU?
IT'S NOT THAT SIMPLE.
NO, IT IS THAT SIMPLE.
Photographer: OK.
LET'S SQUEEZE IN
ON THE SIDES.
GOOD. HOLD IT.
OK. THANKS A LOT,
GUYS. APPRECIATE IT.
YOU KNOW, YOU'RE
REALLY PISSING ME
OFF, LEERY.
I MEAN, I USED
TO TAKE PRIDE
IN THINKING
THAT I WAS
THE ONLY GEEK
IN AMERICA
THAT KNEW WHO
A.I. BROOKS WAS.
SERIOUSLY, THOUGH,
MAN, YOUR FLICK
IS FANTASTIC.
I'M BLOWN AWAY.
THANK YOU.
YOU KNOW, YOU'RE
NOT HALF THE GOON
I THOUGHT YOU WERE.
I'M NOT A, UH,
HOLLYWOOD SLICKSTER?
OK. OK. I CAN GET
A LITTLE CARRIED
AWAY SOMETIMES.
SO? HOW DO
YOU LIKE 'SC?
UH, DROPPED OUT,
ACTUALLY.
UM, IT JUST
WASN'T FOR ME.
WHAT ABOUT YOU?
YOUR MOVIE IS WORTHY
OF GREAT STUFF.
WHY ARE YOU
HANGING AROUND HERE?
WELL, HERE IS
WHERE I GREW UP.
I GO TO SCHOOL
IN BOSTON.
THIS REALLY WEIRD
VISUAL ARTS PLACE
FULL OF FREAKS
AND MISFITS.
AND YOU KNOW,
IT MIGHT SUIT YOU.
YEAH, YOU SHOULD,
UH, COME CHECK
IT OUT SOMETIME.
DEFINITELY.
THANK YOU. I MIGHT.
COOL.
AH, HERE COMES
YOUR GIRL.
SHE'S, UH...
HI.
HEY.
JEN, THIS IS OLIVER.
OH. YEAH. GOD.
YOUR MOVIE WAS FANTASTIC.
THANKS.
UM, AND YOU'RE
STILL REALLY PRETTY.
THANK YOU.
I WAS JUST ABOUT
TO TELL DAWSON
HOW LUCKY HE IS.
YOU GUYS MAKE
A GREAT COUPLE.
WELL, THANK YOU.
VERY MUCH.
NO PROBLEM.
UM, I'LL SEE
YOU AROUND?
YEAH. SEE YA.
[JEN LAUGHS]
DID YOU
HEAR THAT, BABY?
YOU'RE LUCKY
TO HAVE ME.
THAT'S AN UNDERSTATEMENT
IF I EVER HEARD ONE.
WHAT?
HOW DO YOU GET OFF
TALKING ABOUT AUDREY
LIKE THAT?
YOU YOURSELF
USED TO TALK ABOUT
HER LIKE THAT.
YEAH, BUT THAT'S
BEFORE I KNEW HER.
I WASN'T GOING
AROUND SELLING HER
TO THE HIGHEST BIDDER.
IT WAS JUST STUPID,
HARMLESS FUN.
THAT'S IT.
I CAN'T BELIEVE
YOU JUST SAID THAT.
JACK, WHAT HAPPENED
TO YOU?
WHEN DID YOU
TURN INTO THIS JERK?
HOLD ON. YOU
DON'T UNDERSTAND.
YOU'RE RIGHT.
I DON'T UNDERSTAND,
AND THAT'S BECAUSE YOU
NEVER CARED TO EXPLAIN.
IT'S LIKE
YOU JUST COULDN'T WAIT
FOR THE MOMENT
WE GOT TO BOSTON
SO YOU COULD DROP US
AND GET NEW FRIENDS.
WHOA--WHOA.
THAT'S NOT TRUE.
NO?
LOOK.
WHAT?
I FEEL AT HOME HERE.
FOR ONCE,
I HAVE A FAMILY
THAT'S NOT CONSTANTLY
ON THE BRINK
OF SELF-DESTRUCTION.
I MEAN,
WITH THESE GUYS,
I CAN FINALLY
LIVE MY LIFE
INSTEAD OF CONSTANTLY
WORRYING ABOUT
SOMEONE ELSE'S.
REALLY?
BECAUSE IT FEELS
TO ME LIKE YOU'RE
HIDING, JACK,
LIKE YOU'RE
PUSHING US
AND YOURSELF AWAY,
BECAUSE MAYBE
IT'S JUST EASIER
TO BE ANOTHER ONE
OF THE MEATHEADS.
MEATHEAD?
YEAH.
YOU DON'T EVEN KNOW
ANY OF THESE PEOPLE.
WELL, I REALLY DON'T
WANT TO RUN OFF
AND MEET 'EM ALL
NOW THAT I KNOW
THEY'RE ALL
WANNA-BE PIMPS.
SEE, NOW YOU'RE
EXAGGERATING, JOEY.
YOU KNOW WHAT? EVERY
TIME SOMETHING DOESN'T
MEET YOUR STANDARD
OF RIGHTEOUSNESS,
YOU WRITE IT OFF
LIKE IT'S THE WORST
THING ON EARTH.
STANDARD OF
RIGHTEOUSNESS?
YEAH.
JACK, TRY COMMON
DECENCY AND RESPECT.
JOEY, LOOK AROUND.
EVERYBODY HERE
IS HAVING A GOOD TIME.
NOBODY'S FORCING
ANYONE TO BE HERE.
THAT'S TRUE.
NO ONE'S FORCING
ME TO BE HERE.
WHAT ARE YOU
THINKING ABOUT?
MY DAD.
IN A GOOD WAY.
IN A REALLY GOOD WAY.
IN A WAY I HAVEN'T
BEEN ABLE TO
IN A LONG TIME.
STANDING UP THERE
IN FRONT OF ALL
THOSE PEOPLE,
TALKING ABOUT HIM,
IT WAS JUST...
IT WAS SO NICE
TO REMEMBER HIM.
YOU KNOW, AND
FOR THE FIRST TIME,
I WAS FINALLY
ABLE TO APPRECIATE
WHAT A GREAT FATHER
HE WAS
AND HOW LUCKY I WAS
TO HAVE KNOWN HIM
WITHOUT FEELING GUILTY.
WITHOUT FEELING
LIKE I LET HIM DOWN.
I DON'T WANNA
JINX ANYTHING, BUT...
I DARESAY I'M HAPPY.
WELL, I HOPE SO
'CAUSE YOU DESERVE IT.
AND I HAVE YOU
TO THANK IN A BIG WAY.
HOW DO YOU FIGURE?
YOU'VE SOMEHOW MANAGED
TO FIGURE OUT A WAY
TO BE THERE FOR ME.
AND THAT...
UH...I'LL NEVER BE ABLE
TO PUT INTO WORDS
WHAT THAT MEANS TO ME.
LISTEN. I...
IT'S THE LEAST
I CAN DO FOR THE GUY
WHO RESTORES MY FAITH
IN THE OPPOSITE SEX.
[LAUGHS]
I DO THAT?
YES, YOU DO DO THAT.
WOW. HOW DO I DO THAT?
BECAUSE...EH, UM...
NO. WHEN IT DIDN'T
WORK OUT BETWEEN US
ALL THOSE YEARS AGO,
UM...
YOU STILL HAVE MANAGED
TO GIVE ME A PLACE
IN YOUR HEART.
WHY DIDN'T IT WORK OUT
BETWEEN US?
YOU WERE IN LOVE
WITH JOEY.
NO. THAT'S TOO EASY.
I SEEM TO RECALL YOU
HAVING BROKEN UP WITH ME.
YEAH, BUT, I--
OH, GOD.
I QUICKLY SAW
THE ERRORS OF MY WAYS
AND PROCEEDED TO, UM...
HURL MYSELF AT YOU
IN A VERY
EMBARRASSING FASHION.
THAT'S RIGHT. YOU DID.
OH, GOD.
AND I'M ASHAMED TO ADMIT IT,
BUT I REALLY ENJOYED THAT.
I DID. I LOVED IT,
ESPECIALLY YOU BEING
THE FIRST GIRL THAT HAD
TORN MY HEART OUT AND ALL.
I DID?
GOD, YEAH.
TEMPLE OF DOOM  STYLE.
BUT...
ANYWAY...
I THINK I'M FULLY AWARE
OF THE REASON IT DIDN'T
WORK OUT BETWEEN US.
WHY?
YOU WERE NEVER
PHYSICALLY ATTRACTED TO ME.
IS THAT WHAT YOU THINK?
YEAH. I THINK YOU THOUGHT
THAT I WAS SAFE.
LOOK AT YOU SMILING.
SO THAT'S
WHAT EVERYONE'S
TALKING ABOUT.
THAT'S IT.
HMM...
IT WASN'T...
WHAT I IMAGINED.
IT'S NOT?
NO. EVERYONE ALWAYS
TOLD ME YOUR FIRST TIME
IS NEVER AS GOOD AS
YOU'D IMAGINE IT TO BE.
THAT WAS...
EVERY BIT
THE FANTASY.
UH, YOU WERE--
SHH!
WE.
WE  WERE.
YOU'RE RIGHT.
WE.
WE WERE GREAT.
WHAT'S WRONG, WITTER?
YOU'RE EARLY.
I NEED TO TALK
TO YOU FOR A SEC.
ALL RIGHT. WHAT'S UP?
I QUIT.
THIS IS ABOUT KAREN?
YES, THIS IS ABOUT KAREN.
SO YOU KNOW
THINGS HAVE GOTTEN
A LITTLE COMPLICATED,
AND I'M SORRY
BECAUSE I DIDN'T MEAN
FOR THIS TO HAPPEN.
YEAH, YOU DID.
THERE'S NO NEED
TO LIE TO ME ABOUT IT.
YOU'RE SAYING THAT TO ME,
THE GUY WHO'S CHEATING
ON HIS WIFE,
AND YOU PUT ME
RIGHT IN THE MIDDLE OF IT.
DO YOU EVER STOP
TO THINK ABOUT THAT,
OR DID YOU EVER STOP
TO THINK ABOUT KAREN?
MORE THAN YOU'LL
EVER KNOW, KID.
FINE. WHATEVER.
I STILL QUIT.
FINE. THAT'S COOL.
KAREN ALREADY
BEAT YOU TO IT.
WHAT?
THAT'S WHAT SHE WANTED,
NOT ME.
LOOK, I'M SORRY YOU
GOT CAUGHT UP IN THIS.
I SHOULD PROBABLY NEVER
HAVE BORROWED YOUR BOAT.
I'M SORRY
THAT YOUR IMAGE OF ME
HAS BEEN SHATTERED.
I NEVER SAID
I WAS PERFECT.
THAT'S THE WAY
THINGS ARE SOMETIMES.
JOB'S STILL YOURS
IF YOU WANT IT.
IS EVERYTHING OK?
YES.
I WAS JUST PUTTING JACK
THROUGH A PRETTY GRUELING
APOLOGY HERE,
BUT HE PASSED.
COME HERE, YOU!
I'M SO SORRY.
I KNOW. I KNOW.
NO HARD FEELINGS, OK?
JUST A LOT
OF MAKING UP TO DO.
AND THE NEXT TIME
YOU SET ME UP,
IT BETTER BE WITH SOMEONE
SECURE ENOUGH WITH GIRLS
NOT TO RESORT TO, LIKE,
MUSCLE-AND-FITNESS TALK.
REALLY,
WHAT WAS THAT ABOUT?
GO EASY ON HIM, BUNNY.
[SIGHS]
OK, UH...
THE THING IS, JOEY, UM...
THERE REALLY
ISN'T MUCH I CAN SAY
TO DEFEND THE WAY
THAT I ACTED LAST NIGHT.
IT JUST...
IT'S REALLY HARD
SOMETIMES,
YOU KNOW,
BALANCING THINGS OUT,
MEETING NEW FRIENDS,
TRYING TO BRING THEM TOGETHER
WITH THE--WITH THE OLD.
I DON'T KNOW.
IT PROBABLY DOESN'T HELP
WHEN THE OLD FRIENDS
ARE QUICK TO JUDGE
SOMETHING THEY...
KNOW NOTHING ABOUT.
WELL, ACTUALLY,
THAT'S WHAT YOU NEED
SOMETIMES TO KEEP
FROM BEING SUCH AN ASS.
YOU KNOW, JACK, YOU GROW
UP IN THIS SMALL TOWN,
YOU KNOW, THINKING YOU
HAVE THE MOST OPEN MIND
AND YOU'RE READY
FOR ANYTHING.
AND THEN YOU FINALLY
HIT THE BIG CITY,
AND, SUDDENLY, THERE ARE
STILL SO MANY SURPRISES,
LIKE, NO MATTER
HOW OPEN YOU THOUGHT
YOUR MIND WAS,
THERE'S STILL
SO MUCH TO LEARN
IN SOMETIMES
PLACES YOU NEVER WOULD
HAVE EVEN THOUGHT.
YEAH.
IF A FRATERNITY
IS WHAT YOU NEED,
WE NEED TO LEARN
TO ACCEPT THAT.
I NEED TO LEARN TO BE
LESS EXTREME ABOUT IT.
COME HERE.
[CHUCKLES]
EH...SO...
LAST NIGHT, I NEVER
WOULD HAVE GUESSED
THAT WE WERE GONNA
BE SITTING HERE
LIKE THIS.
I'M SORRY FOR
WHAT I SAID, PACEY.
LAST NIGHT WAS JUST
AS MUCH MY FAULT
AS IT WAS YOURS.
FOR WHAT IT'S WORTH,
I DON'T REGRET IT,
NOT A SINGLE SECOND.
YOU FORCED ME
TO MAKE A DECISION
I SHOULD HAVE MADE
A LONG TIME AGO.
THEN WHY DON'T YOU
GIVE IT A CHANCE?
I MEAN, YOU DON'T
HAVE TO LEAVE, KAREN.
NO. I DO.
I OWE MYSELF
SOME MAJOR REGROUPING,
AND I HAVE YOU TO THANK
FOR MAKING ME REALIZE THAT.
YOU CALLED ME ON A LOT
OF THINGS THAT NEED FIXING.
NOBODY CAN SAVE YOU
FROM YOURSELF.
I PROBABLY WOULD
HAVE TRIED ANYWAY.
I KNOW.
I GOTTA GO.
STICK WITH BRECHER,
PACEY.
HE'S NOT SUCH A BAD GUY.
HE'S GOT A SOFT SPOT
FOR YA. BESIDES...
YOU'RE GOOD IN THERE.
THANKS.
TAKE CARE, WITTER.
YEP, YOU, TOO, TORRES.
BACK TO REALITY, HUH?
HMM. I GUESS.
[SIGHS]
DAWSON?
I NEED TO TALK.
OK.
SO LET'S TALK.
I JUST FEEL AWKWARD AND...
THERE'S TOO MUCH
AT STAKE FOR ME
TO LET IT SLIDE.
WHAT DO YOU MEAN?
I DON'T KNOW.
I MEAN, PART OF ME WISHES
THAT LAST NIGHT COULD JUST BE,
UM, A BEAUTIFUL MEMORY,
AND THE OTHER PART KNOWS
THAT SEX CHANGES EVERYTHING.
AND I JUST DON'T WANT
TO LOSE OUR FRIENDSHIP.
OK. YOU'RE NOT GONNA
LOSE MY FRIENDSHIP.
I PROMISE. OK?
AND, YES,
SEX DOES CHANGE THINGS.
BUT WHO SAYS IT HAS
TO BE FOR THE WORSE?
WHAT DOES THAT MEAN?
[SIGHS]
I DON'T KNOW.
IF I TOLD YOU I KNEW
WHERE THIS WAS LEADING,
I'D BE LYING TO YOU,
'CAUSE I DON'T.
ALL I KNOW IS...
IT HAPPENED LAST NIGHT,
AND IT FELT RIGHT.
AND IF SEX
CHANGES THINGS,
YOU KNOW WHAT?
I SAY, BRING IT ON.
I'M READY
TO EXPLORE THAT.
OK.
I'M IN.
I WISH WE DIDN'T
HAVE TO LEAVE HERE.
SO WE STAY.
STAY?
YEAH.
WE STAY.
AT LEAST
A COUPLE DAYS.
AFTER ALL, THIS IS
THE HONEYMOON SUITE,
RIGHT?
AND I AM
YOUR GIRLFRIEND.